Welcome back.
Let's talk about another common term that we hear a lot that is lexical environment.
You may have heard different variations of this words such as lexical scope lexical analysis.
But what does the word lexical really mean.
Well let's ask our good friend Google.
Hey Google what does lexical mean related to the words or vocabulary of a language.
All right.
Did you get that.
No not really right.
That's the most confusing definition I've ever seen.
All right.
So let's simplify this.
What does lexical meat lexical environment is simply where you write something.
Because we now know how our JavaScript engine works.
That is it looks through our code and breeze through our code where we write something is important
a lexical environment simply means that this is the way that I like to think about it.
Remember our code previously where we have our global execution context and then we called Say my name.
Then find my name.
And then finally print my name.
Well you can't think of lexical environment as these little universes that you created.
Every time we create an execution context and if I said something like I'm doing a lexical analysis
or a compiler is doing lexical analysis all it's saying is it's checking to see where the words were
written and their location.
That is what universe is it part of if we go back to our code what we're saying with a lexical environment
it's saying right now on this piece of paper or digital paper where do we write the function.
What part of the universe is it
say my name was written to the global execution context.
Remember that global object.
Same with find my name.
Same with print name.
If I did window dot print name or window dot say name it's going to work because they were all written
right here.
If I had a function that was let's say declared inside of here that function it was written inside another
world inside a function world.
Right.
And again lexical means at compile time.
Where is the code written.
And based on when the compiler or the interpreter sees our code it will know different things about
that code.
In this case this function is lexical key inside the Find My name function the farm find my name world
because this way the compiler knowing where it was written can decide and make decisions as to where
to put things and what actions to take and what function a has access to when that world and there are
a lot of lexical environments right.
All these different planets.
Well the way I like to think about it is this in javascript every time we have a function it creates
a new world for us inside of that function.
We are shot up into that planet every time we add it onto the call stack and inside of that planet we
can do different things have different information inside of them and as we'll see later on they can
communicate with each other in different ways.
So based on what we just learned.
If I told you execution context tells you which lexical environment is currently running does that makes
sense well.
Yeah right.
This execution context is going to tell me which lexical environment which planet is currently running
and that's how things work in JavaScript in JavaScript are lexical scope.
And don't worry scope is something we'll go later on but you can think of it as a lexical environment
where code is written so lexical scope which is the available data and variables where the function
was defined.
That is where we write it determines are available variables not where the function is called which
is dynamic scope.
So it doesn't matter where we call our function.
It doesn't matter that fine my name gets called inside of say my name because find my name was lexical
be scoped that is its lexical environment is global.
It was written out here with no indentation that is in the global scope.
It will have access to certain things based on that property and this is something that we're going
to get into a little bit more.
But to close out this video what is the first lexical environment that we have.
Well the very first lexical environment is the global lexical environment where we write our code.
All right.
I hope your brain doesn't hurt from these terms but we just cover to execution context and lexical environment.
Let's go on to the next video.
I'll see you in the next one.
By.